
## About NCD medication distribuition (NCDMD)

The Project uses  [Laravel web application framework](https://laravel.com/). The project requires at least PHP 8.0. The project can be connected to a MySQL, PostgreSQL or SQLite database. [XAMP](https://www.apachefriends.org/) can be installed to provide the basic requirements for the project. [composer( a dependency manager for PHP)](https://getcomposer.org/) is required to install the projects PHP dependencies. after cloning the project to your machine, open a terminal, commad prompt or shell in your project root directory and run "composer install" to install it's dependencies. To connect to a database, create a database and a database user and set the credentials in the .env file at the application directory (if the file doesn't exist rename .env.example to .env). for MySQL database set DB_CONNECTION to mysql, for PostgreSQL database set DB_CONNECTION to pgsql. for SQLite database set DB_CONNECTION to sqlite. after setting the database credentials run "php artisan migrate" to create the tables for the database objects. run "php artisan key:generate" .  run "php artisan serve" to start a development server at localhost. 

## Project Info
- The routes/web.php file defines routes that are for the web interface. These routes are assigned the web middleware group, which provides features like session state and CSRF protection.
- Controllers can group related request handling logic into a single class. the controllers are stored in the app/Http/Controllers directory.
- Views provide a convenient way to place all of our HTML in separate files. Views separate the controller / application logic from the presentation logic and are stored in the resources/views directory. The <span style="color:orange;">.blade.php</span> extension informs the framework that the file contains a Blade template. Blade templates contain HTML as well as Blade directives that allow you to easily echo values, create "if" statements, iterate over data, and more.
- Laravel includes Eloquent, an object-relational mapper (ORM) that makes it enjoyable to interact with your database. When using Eloquent, each database table has a corresponding "Model" that is used to interact with that table. In addition to retrieving records from the database table, Eloquent models allow you to insert, update, and delete records from the table as well.
